According to Bjarne Stroustrup the inventor of C++ generic programming is quote writing code that works
with a variety of types as arguments.
As long as those argument types meet the specific syntax and semantic requirements end quote.
So why is generic programming such a big deal.
Well it's because if I have code that's written to be generic then I should be able to use any types
with that code as long as it makes sense and it should work.
We'll see this specific example later.
But what if I wanted to have a function that took some number as a parameter and returned the square
of that number with generic programming I should be able to pass in any numeric type into that function
and it will return the correct result so it should work with its short ints longs long longs floats
doubles and so forth you get the idea.
But we have a bit of a problem.
The C++ compiler is statically typed so it needs to know the type being passed into that function so
it can type check it.
So if I write the function to expect an integer then I will be able to call it correctly with a double.
So how can we get this to work in C++.
There's a couple of ways in this video.
Look at macros and then the next several videos will learn about function and class templates.
Notice the note on the macros bullet.
Be very careful when you use macros.
In practice especially macros that use arguments.
So why am I showing it to you then.
Well sometimes the best way to teach how to do something correctly is to first teach how to do it in
a way that's inferior.
Second.
You'll likely see this out there in production code.
There's a ton of legacy C++ code out there and macros are used in much of that code.
Macros are used more extensively in C code though and we sometimes see C code use with C plus plus code.
Now we've actually already used a macro.
Remember when we created the include guards around our DOT h header files we used poun define.
Well that's a macro in the context of Hetter guards and conditional compilation.
It's OK to use macros but don't use macros in your code as I'll show you here.
OK so let's see how these macros work.
First the macros begin with the pound sign.
And we know that all directives that begin with the pound sign are preprocessor directives and what
else do we know.
Well we know that the preprocessor doesn't know C++.
So there is no type information associated with macros.
The preprocessor is just doing simple substitution noticed the first poun define defines the name Max
size to be 100.
Notice that the 100 has no type associated with it.
It's just a 100 the second poun define defines the named pi to be three point 1 4 1 5 9.
Now if we use these names in our program the preprocessor will replace the names with what we defined
them to represent.
Notice that there is no semi-colon at the end of the macros.
If there was then the semi-colon would also be copied.
And that's not usually what we want in this.
We can see Max size being used in the expression and the if statement and pi is being used in a calculation
the preprocessor will first remove the pound to find statements from our code.
Then it goes through the program and replaces any defined names with what we defined them to be.
You can see the values being replaced here in the if statement and the calculation.
Now the process file is sent to the compiler.
It looks simple and it is but there's a better way to do this.
And we learned it a long time ago.
We used constants constants are typed and they're known to the compiler.
I know what you're thinking what does this have to do a generic programming.
I'll show you in the next line.
Suppose we want to write a function that expects to integers and returns the maximum of those to integers.
We could easily write that Max function as you can see in this slide.
Note that we're using the conditional operator so it evaluates a greater than B and if it's true then
A is returned otherwise B is returned.
Simple if else logic.
Now we can define two ints x and y.
Call the max function with X and Y as parameters.
And it works perfectly OK so what.
Whereas the generic programming.
Now suppose we need a max function for doubles and another one for characters and we could have another
one for floats and long as you get the idea we could end up writing many of these max functions.
The code is the same for all of them.
It's that code with the conditional operator.
The only thing that changes is the types of the parameters.
Remember the idea behind generic programming I should be able to use max with any types as long as they
make sense.
But how can I do that without writing many versions of this function like we did here.
But one way is to use macros with parameters in this slide we're defining a macro named Max that expects
two arguments A and B and we can define it to be the conditional expression we saw earlier.
So when the preprocessor sees Max with two arguments it will replace it with what we defined it in the
macro and it will also replace the arguments A and B.
So now we have no functions defined just a single macro called Max.
We can now use max in our code with arguments as you see in the examples.
It works fine.
That's an example of generic programming.
Remember the preprocessor is simply substituting.
It doesn't know C++.
So problems can occur once the compiler tries to compile the process code.
We have to be very careful with macros.
Here's an example.
Suppose we want a simple macro that's defined as poun defined square with a single argument.
And it's defined as a times a.
Looks simple and it is but there's a few problems here.
Now we can use that macro.
End result equal square with the five square 5 were be replaced with five times five and all is good.
But look at the next example.
Result equals 100 divided by square 5.
What we expect is 100 divided by 25 which is four.
But that's not what we get.
We get 100 divided by five times five.
Again blind substitution.
So how can we make this better when we use macros.
We can wrap up all the arguments in parentheses.
This is the best practice.
Now we give ourselves a better chance that the result will be correct.
In this case we now get what we expect.
OK so why don't we want to do this because the compiler isn't doing it.
The preprocessor is doing it and it doesn't know the syntax or semantics of C++.
Don't use macros with arguments in your code.
If you have legacy code understand how it works or that you can better test the code.
So what's a better way to write these Max and square functions so that we can use generic programming
and let the compiler do the work.
We can use templates in this case function templates and we'll learn about them in the next video.